
XMerge_Help.txt - How to use XMerge, the Source File Merger.

XMerge helps you merge the contents of multiple .txt, .csv, .xls, or .xlsx 
files into one .xlsx spreadsheet.

You specify or create the Output folder.  This is where your output file will 
be when XMerge finishes.  All of XMerge's activities happen in this folder.

XMerge makes copies of source files and creates your output.xlsx file.
XMerge does not manipulate the original source files in any way.

-- CHOOSE YOUR COLUMN NAMES --

There is a radio button section in the Controls block that allows you to 
select between "All Columns" or "Configured Cols".  If you want to specify
the columns XMerge will pull into the new output .xlsx file, you do that
by listing the column names in a spreadsheet called 'ColumnNames.xlsx'.

As of version 1.3.3, ColumnNames.xlsx is added to each Output Folder you work
in where you check the "Configured Cols" radio button.  The file is only
used if "Configured Cols" is checked.

To quickly and easily edit that file, use the option in the File menu:
"File | Edit ColumnNames.xlsx".  The file must have at least one tab 
named "MERGE" (no quotes).  There will be some explanatory text on that 
sheet as well.

Replace whatever you find there with the column names you want to be 
in your new merged spreadsheet.  You can backup name sets by making
a new tab and saving previous column names in it.

NOTE: The column names you specify must already be in each of the source 
files you are merging.  If not, XMerge will create the columns in your merge
file, but there will be nothing in them.

-- SPECIFY THE HEADER ROW --

People use the top of their spreadsheets in many different
ways.  Some are plain, just a row of column labels (aka, the 'header').
Others have ornate formatting on multiple rows above the header, which they
intend to be seen on reports.

As a result, XMerge may need your help understanding which row is actually
the header row in your source files.  

'auto' understands 1 or 2 rows.  If your source files have more than
two rows in the header (above the first row of data), you will need to 
specify which row is the header row (the row with column labels or names).

To do that, replace the word 'auto' with a single number, for example: '4'.

-- SOURCE FILES MISSING A COLUMN --

If a source file doesn't have an expected column, XMerge just fills cells 
for that column with empty strings.  No fuss, no muss.

-- OUTPUT FILENAME --

You may specify the output filename in a box on the screen, or leave the 
default "XMerge_Export" there.

You can specify new output folders anytime you wish, and you can change the 
output filename anytime you wish.

-- DUAL .ini FILES (xmerge.ini and LastXMerge.ini) --

XMerge stores your current configuration in two .ini files.  One lives 
in the installation folder.  This is known as the 'system configuration file'.
The values contained in this system .ini are used for repeatedly working in the
same output folder. The last folder you worked in will be where you start 
when you return to XMerge after exiting.

The second .ini file lives in each output folder you specify.  This file
contains a record of the source file paths and filenames.  This allows
you to pick up where you left off last time you worked in any specific
output folder.  Each time you select that output folder, the LastXMerge.ini 
file is read.  All you have to do is click 'Go' to replicate whatever
happened last using that output folder.

-- What happens next --

XMerge creates a "temp" folder in the Output folder, and it is this folder 
into which the source files are copied.  Then XMerge converts them to .xlsx 
and copies the contents of each file concurrently into the new output file.  
Once the conversion and copying is finished, XMerge removes the "temp" 
folder and the files that were copied into it.

-- CHECKBOXES AND BUTTONS --

SELECT OUTPUT FOLDER:  Select this checkbox when you are ready to start a 
new merge project.  This box is checked by default the first time you 
run XMerge.

CLEAR OUTPUT FOLDER:  Select this checkbox if you want to delete the contents 
of the current outputs folder before continuing.  Be aware: all files will 
be deleted from the current output folder 
(the one listed on line 3 "Currently selected Output folder:".)

APPEND SRC FILENAMES: If you check this box, the source file filename (minus
the extension) will be added to the last column in your spreadsheet.  This tells
you where that row of data came from.

'GET NEW DATA' BUTTON:  Use this when you are first starting XMerge, or 
anytime you want to change data sets.  You will be prompted to clear the 
outputs folder if there are files in it.  If you opt to NOT clear the 
outputs folder, the end result will not be what you want.

'GO' BUTTON: Use this to copy, convert, and compile the 
same files you worked with last time.  This is helpful when you have made 
edits and re-generated the source data files.

XMerge is written in Python and complied using Pyinstaller.  The installer 
is built for Windows using the Inno Setup Compiler.



